---
title: "Women’s History Month, 3: Remembrances of encounters with Alice Thornton" 
feature: /assets/img/posts/womens_history_month.jpg
status: draft
authors:
- guest
tags:
- guest post
---

For Women’s History Month 2023, we are posting a series of reflections on our first encounters with Alice Thornton and our changing relationship with her books from then to now. Feel free to get involved by sending us your own reflections, on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/thornton_books) or on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/thornton.books).


This guest post is by Professor Elspeth Graham, a member of the *Alice Thornton's Books* project board. She works in the field of late sixteenth and seventeenth century literature and cultural studies and has published on seventeenth-century women’s writing. 

CN: pain; cancer; death

It's extraordinary how, every now and then over the space of forty
years, Alice Thornton has cropped up in my life. Her appearances have
always been quite unexpected -- and always serendipitous.


![Photo of front cover of Her
Own Life: Autobiographical Writings by Seventeenth-Century English
Women]({{"/assets/img/posts/her_own_life_cover.jpg"|url}}){.media-right}



I can't remember exactly when I first came across her, but I'd read the
1875 Surtees edition of her *Autobiography* and used extracts of it in
my teaching on an interdisciplinary early-modern Literature and History
course in the early 1980s. Really, though, it was in the mid-1980s that
I first began to work on her writings more seriously. Hilary Hinds,
Elaine Hobby, Helen Wilcox and I were preparing what was to become *Her
Own Life: Autobiographical Writings by Seventeenth-Century English
Women*.[^1] One of my tasks was to edit Alice Thornton's writings.

This was difficult: I didn't have a copy text. I knew that there had
been several manuscript versions of her autobiography that had been in
her family until the 1930s. But in spite of a great deal of searching,
and the generous help of librarians in the John Rylands Library in
Manchester, all the manuscripts seemed to have vanished completely
without trace. In those pre-internet days, my searches first involved
ploughing through endless hand-written catalogues of manuscripts. But
then, in the remote hope that something remained with the descendants of
Thornton's daughter's family who had owned the manuscripts, I wrote
dozens of letters to all Combers listed in Yorkshire telephone
directories. Nothing emerged. Not even a glimmer of a trail, appeared.
All that I discovered was that Yale University Library did have a 1930s
microfilm of Thornton's *Book of Remembrances*.

I wrote and asked Yale for a copy. Sorry, they said, it was too fragile
to risk copying it. So, one night, in desperation, I telephoned them.
The young man who answered the phone asked where I was calling from.
'England in the UK', I answered. 'Where in England, 'he asked.
'Manchester.' Then: 'Where in Manchester?' 'Chorlton.' 'What road in
Chorlton?' I told him. It turned out that he'd been on a Fulbright
scholarship in Manchester and had lived on my street. What are the
chances that a phone call to a random librarian at Yale should produce
such a connection? And on the strength of this amazing coincidence, the
librarian made me a copy of the precious microfilm. That was what I used
as the copy text for *Her Own Life*.

Ten years went by. In 1995 my mum was dying from ovarian cancer at home
in the English Midlands. I had been shocked when I arrived one hot
weekend in July to discover the appalling level of her pain. Throughout
her illness, she'd been advised by her doctors to keep a cancer diary;
all that she'd written for the last week, in huge wobbly letters, was:
'Pain', 'Pain', 'Pain.' But Shake Siegal, her wonderful GP, came round
as soon as I asked, to sort out her pain. And when she said that she
didn't want to have to go back to hospital (two major operations and
endless chemo had so battered her), he asked my brother and me, 'Are you
up for this?' So, although it was quite unusual at that time for people
to die at home, she stayed in her own bed with my brother, Rob, and me
to care for her, with the support of the local hospice, and with my dad,
distraught, but helping where he could.

Rob and I stayed with her, in split shifts, twenty-four hours a day for
ten days, nursing her, holding her hand, talking to her. And, at first,
for twenty-four hours a day, she talked to herself, dreaming out loud,
as it were. There were funny conversations with her sister about 'that
contraption on your head'; memories of her young life in India;
ruminations about how she wouldn't mind having another baby. She
chattered on and on.



![image of 17thC woman on deathbed]({{"/assets/img/posts/metsu_woman_in_agony_wmc.jpg" | url}} "Gabriël Metsu, Woman in Agony (the Death of Sophonisba) (1660). <br>Museum of Fine Art Boston. Public domain."){.media-right}


Quite soon, though, she slipped into a full and silent coma. Then
suddenly one day, as I was moistening her mouth with a sponge lollipop,
Alice Thornton popped up in my mind. I remembered details from her
graphic description of *her* mother's death:

> She had also an exceeding sore throat and mouth... The tongue and mouth at
> first was black, then turned white... and in the end grew with a white
> skin all over.[^2]

And then, one day when my mum's eyes turned back in her head so that
only the whites showed, I misremembered Thornton's mother's final
action, when she 'lift up both hands & eyes to heaven three times' as her
having turned her eyes inwards to God.[^3] I should have known
better than to misremember the words of Thornton's description,
confusing them with, and literalising, the similar words of other women
describing those on their deathbeds. But my mistake, and my
literalisation of that commonplace phrase, 'turned her eyes inward,' so
familiar from so many texts I'd read, was, in the intensity of the
moment, a great comfort. While my brother and my dad were shocked, I
just thought, 'This is what happens. I know about this.' I was unfazed.
Thornton's writings along with those of many other early-modern women
came to me, in however a distorted form, as a kindness, almost a sort of
blessing. The mind, I discovered, retrieves or rewrites its own
knowledge to assuage horror and grief; misremembering is part of the
work of remembrance.

More years passed and one day I was talking to my friend, the early
modernist Kate Hodgkin, about all of this. She commented on how
wonderful it was that I'd experienced such a continuity over the
centuries with other women -- women who'd tended their loved ones as
they died. And Kate was right. That continuity of experience, that link
with generations of women over centuries, is profoundly affecting and
enabling, I've found.

And the relationships with *living* women that have come about through
shared knowledge of the writings of Alice Thornton and other
seventeenth-century women are equally a cause for celebration. The four
of us who worked on *Her Own Life* are still cherished friends. And it
was [Suzanne Trill](https://thornton.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/people/strill/) --
another friend met through mutual concerns with early-modern women's
writing -- who told me about the extraordinary serendipities surrounding
Cordelia Beattie's tracing of [two Thornton missing
manuscripts](https://thornton.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/posts/blog/2022-06-23-two-missing-thornton-manuscripts/)
and the setting up of the Alice Thornton's Books project. Alice's life,
it seems, has lived on in the lives of others in extraordinarily
unexpected -- and rather wonderful -- ways.

[^1]: Elspeth Graham et al., eds., *Her Own Life: Autobiographical
    Writings by Seventeenth-Century Englishwomen* (London: Routledge,
    1989), https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203358962.

[^2]: The text quoted above is from our work-in-progress edition of Alice Thornton's Books. The text is modernised in the body of the blog and the semi-diplomatic transcription is reproduced here in the notes. "She had also an exiding sore throat & mouth... The Toung & mouth at first was blacke. then turnd white... and in the end grew with a white skinn all over". Alice Thornton, *Book of Remembrances*, Durham Cathedral Library, GB-0033-CCOM 38, 32.

[^3]: "lift up both hands & eies to heaven 3 times". *Book of Remembrances*, 37.
